---
title: 雅思口语和写作的100个替换词
top: false
cover: false
toc: true
mathjax: false
date: 2019-10-10 23:17:06
password:
summary: 我们在阅读英语文章的时候会发现，同样的一个意思，文章中会用多个表达来替换着用，这样，文章读起来才不会觉得单调无味。相同的道理，在我们参加口语和写作考试的时候，也要学着意思相近的词汇表达替换使用，这样也能显得语言丰富生动。
tags:
- English
- IELTS
categories:
- English
---
# 雅思口语和写作的100个替换词
1. important = crucial (extremely important), significant (amount or effects large enough to be important)
2. common = universal, ubiquitous (if something is ubiquitous, it seems to be every where)
3. abundant = ample (enough and usually extra), plentiful (enough for people's needs and wants)
4. stick = adhere, cling (hold on something tightly)
5. neglect = ignore. (difference: neglect means someone has not paid enough attention to something; ignore means no attention.)
6. near = adjacent (two things next to each other), adjoin (the same as adjacent)
7. pursue = woo (man woos woman, old-fashioned), seek (if you seek sth, you try to obtain it. FORMAL)
8. accurate = precise (precise is exact and accurate in all details), exact (correct in every detail)
9. vague = obscure (unknown or known by only a few people)
10. top = peak, summit
11. competitor = rival, opponent (especially in sports and politics)
12. blame = condemn (if you condemn something, you say it is very bad and unacceptable)
13. opinion = perspective, standpoint (means looking at an event or situation in a particular way)
14. fame = prestige (describe those who are admired), reputation
15. build = erect (you can erect something as buildings, FORMAL), establish
16. insult = humiliate (do something or say something which makes people feel ashamed or stupid)
17. complain = grumble (complain something in a bad-tempered way)
18. primary = radical (very important and great in degree), fundamental
19. relieve = alleviate (alleviate means you make pain or sufferings less intense or severe)
20. force = coerce into (coerce means you make someone do something she/he does not want to), compel
21. enlarge = magnify (magnify means make something larger than it really is)
22. complex = intricate (if something is intricate, it often has many small parts and details)
23. Lonely = solitary (if someone is solitary, there is no one near him/her)
24. small = minuscule (very small), minute,
25. praise = extol (stronger than praise), compliment(polite and political)
26. hard-working = assiduous (someone who is assiduous works hard or does things very thoroughly)
27. difficult = arduous (if something is arduous, it is difficult and tiring, and involves a lot of efforts)
28. poor (soil) = barren, infertile (used to describe the soil is so poor that plants cannot be planted on it)
29. fragile = brittle, vulnerable (someone who is vulnerable is easily hurt emotionally or physically)
30. show = demonstrate (to demonstrate a fact means to make it clear to people.)
31. big = massive (large in size, quantity, or extent), colossal (use this word, you emphasize something’s large), tremendous (informal)
32. avoid = shun (if someone shuns something, she/he deliberately avoid that something or keep away from it.)
33. fair = impartial (someone who is impartial is able to give a fair opinion or decision on something.)
34. attack = assault (physically attack someone), assail (attack violently)
35. dislike = abhor (abhor means you hate something to a extreme extent for moral reasons), loathe (dislike very much)
36. ruin = devastate (it means damage something very badly, or utterly destroy it.)
37. always = invariably (the same as always, but better than always)
38. forever = perpetual (a perpetual state never changes), immutable (something immutable will never change or be changed)
39. surprise = startle (it means surprise you slightly), astound (surprise you to a large degree), astonish(the same as astound)
40. enthusiasm = zeal (a great enthusiasm), fervency (sincere and enthusiasm)
41. quiet = tranquil (calm and peaceful), serene (calm and quiet)
42. expensive = exorbitant (it means too expensive that it should be)
43. luxurious = lavish (impressive and very expensive), sumptuous (grand and very expensive)
44. boring = tedious (if you describe something tedious, you mean it is boring and frustrating)
45. respect = esteem (if you esteem someone, you respect and admire him/her. FORMAL)
46. worry = fret (if you fret about something, you worry about it)
47. cold = chilly (unpleasantly cold), icy (extremely cold)
48. hot = boiling (very hot)
49. dangerous = perilous (very dangerous, hazardous) (dangerous, especially to people's safety and health)
50. only = unique (the only one of its kind), distinctive;
51. stop = cease (if something ceases, it stops happening or existing)
52. part = component (the components of something are the parts that it is made of)
53. result = consequence (the results or effects of something)
54. obvious = apparent, manifest
55. based on = derived from (can see or notice them very easily)
56. quite = fairly
57. pathetic = lamentable (very uncomfortable and disappointing)
58. field = domain (a particular field of thought, activities or interest)
59. appear = emerge (come into existence)
60. whole = entire (the whole of something)
61. wet = moist (slightly wet), damp (slightly wet), humid (very damp and hot)
62. wrong = erroneous (incorrect or partly correct)
63. difficult = formidable
64. change = convert (change into another form)
65. typical = quintessential (this word means represent a typical example of something)
66. careful = cautious (very careful in order to avoid danger), prudent(careful and sensible)
67. ability = capacity, capability (the same as ability)
68. strange = eccentric (if some one is eccentric, she/he behaves in a strange way, or his/her opinion is different from most people)
69. rich= affluent (if you are affluent, you have a lot of money)
70. use = utilize (the same as use)
71. dubious = skeptical (if you are skeptical about something, you have doubts on it.)
72. satisfy = gratify (if you are gratified by something, it gives you pleasure and satisfaction)
73. short = fleeting, ephemeral (if something is ephemeral, it lasts a short time)
74. Scholarship = fellowship
75. smelly = malodorous (used to describe an unpleasant smell)
76. ugly = hideous (if something is hideous, it is very ugly or unattractive)
77. attractive = appealing (pleasing and attractive), absorbing (something absorbing can attract you a great deal)
78. diverse = miscellaneous (a miscellaneous groups consists of many different kinds of things)
79. disorder = disarray, chaos
80. crazily = frantically (used to describe someone who behaves in a wild and uncontrolled way)
81. rapid = meteoric (ATTENTION: meteoric is only used to describe someone achievessuccess quickly)
82. ordinary = mundane (very ordinary and not at interesting or unusual)
83. despite = notwithstanding (FORMAL)
84. best = optimal (used to describe the best level something can achieve)
85. sharp = acute (severe and intense)
86. unbelievable = inconceivable (if you deem something inconceivable, you think it very unlike to happen )
87. puzzle = perplex (something perplex someone means it confuses and worries him/her because he/she does not understand it)
88. method = avenue (a way of getting something done)
89. famous = distinguished (used to describe people who are successful in their career)
90. ancient = archaic (extremely old and extremely old-fashioned)
91. decorate = embellish (embellish means make something look more attractive via decorating it with something else)
92. possible = feasible (if something is feasible, it can be done, made or achieved)
93. so = consequently, accordingly
94. rare = infrequent (doesn’t happen often)
95. greedy = rapacious (greedy and selfish)
96. individuals,characters, folks = people,persons
97. nowadays = currently
98. dreadful, unfavorable, poor, adverse, ill = be less impressive
99. reap huge fruits = get many benefits
100. for my part, from my own perspective = in my opinion

**声明：资源源自网络，侵删**
