---
title: 雅思口语替换句型
top: false
cover: false
toc: true
mathjax: false
date: 2019-10-10 23:21:06
password:
summary:
tags:
- English
- IELTS
categories:
- English
---
# 雅思口语替换句型  

## 1. Talking About Personal Habits  
　　Example question： What do you usually do in the evenings?    
　　I usually……    
　　I often……    
　　While I'm studying I usually……    
　　Sometimes I…….    
　　As a rule，I……    
　　Whenever I can I……    
## 2. Expressing Likes and Dislikes  
　　Example question： What kinds of music do you like?    
　　My favourite …… is……    
　　I like……    
　　I enjoy……    
　　I'm (quite/rather) keen on……    
　　I just love……    
　　I absolutely adore…….    
　　I'm crazy about……    
　　I'm addicted to……    
　　I'm really into……    
　　I don't mind……    
　　As far as……is concerned，I can take it or leave it.    
　　I don't care too much for…… = I'm not really into……    
　　My least favourite……is……    
　　I dislike……    
　　I can't stand……    
　　I hate…… (extreme language)    
　　I find……    
## 3. Expressing Reasons for Likes and Dislikes  
　　……because……    
　　……since……    
　　The main reason I like……is that it's……    
　　What I like best about……is……    
　　The thing I like best about……is……    
　　The best/worst thing about…… is……    
　　I don't like that very much because it's too……    
　　That's because I find it……    
## 4. Expressing a Preference  
　　Example question： Do you (or，would you) prefer to travel alone or with others?   (e.g.a friend)    
　　I prefer…… because    
　　My preference is…… because……    
　　I prefer A to B because……    
　　If I had the choice，I'd + V…… because…… (假设的话)    
　　If I had the choice，I'd rather + V……because…… (假设的话)    
　　If I have the choice，I'll + V……(a real possibility for the future)    
## 5. Comparing  
　　Example question：What are the differences between modern art in China and traditional Chinese art?    
　　A is bigger than B.    
　　B is not as big as A.    
　　You can also use some of these：    
　　Use “much” as in，“A is much better / worse than B”.    
　　“A is not nearly as good as B.”    
　　“B is nowhere near as big as A”    
　　“A is not quite as important as B.”    
　　“A is almost as important as B，but not quite.”    
　　“In comparison to B，A is quite big.” Or，“A is quite big in comparison to B”.    
　　“Compared to B，A is a lot bigger.”    
## 6. Talking About Recent Changes= Comparing the recent past and the present  
　　Example question：Has your hometown changed much in the past few years?  
(e.g. 20 years)    
　　Yes，it has. For example，……      
　　Today there are many more cars on the roads than there were thirty years ago.    
　　(…… there are/is more_____ than there were/was…….)    
　　The air pollution is much worse/much better than it used to be.    
　　( ______ is more _____ than it used to be.)    
　　Compared to thirty years ago，the population of the city has increased by about two million.    
　　(Compared to thirty years ago，_______ has + 过去分词)    
　　The population of the city has increased by about two million people in the last thirty years.    
　　(______ has + 过去分词 in the last thirty years)    
　　More people today own a car than was the case thirty years ago.    
　　(More _________ today + present tense than was the case thirty years ago.)    
　　Today，more and more people are living in high-rise apartment buildings whereas thirty years ago，we had very few high-rise apartments buildings in our city.    
　　(Today ______ are + 现在分词 whereas thirty years ago + past tense)    
　　More and more large-scale supermarkets are being built nowadays but there were very few of them in my hometown thirty years ago    
　　(More and more ________ are being + 过去分词 nowadays but + past tense thirty years ago.)    
## 7. Contrasting  
　　The question is usually 'a compare question'. When you answer one of these questions，you can use a contrasting statement. However，since the grammar of the comparing answers (see above) is more difficult，you will impress the examiner more by mostly using that，rather than by using contrasting statements.    
　　Example： "A is big but B is small."    
　　(____ is _____ but _____ is ____)    
## 8. Suggesting  
　　Example questions：What would you suggest a visitor to your country see and do?    
　　What do you think the government could/should do?    
　　I'd……(suggest，recommend，say，tell him/her/them)…….    
　　Maybe/perhaps/possibly…… + could / should……    
　　It might/may help if…….+ past tense form of verb    
　　It would probably + (be a good idea，be useful，help) if + past tense form of verb    
　　I……(suggest，recommend，say)…….    
## 9. Expressing Opinions  
　　Example question：Do you think that children should always be offered an incentive (a reward of some kind) when parents ask their children to do something?    
　　I think……    
　　I believe……    
　　I feel……    
　　Personally，I (think，believe，feel)……    
　　I tend to + (think，feel，believe) that……    
　　In my opinion，……    
　　In my view，……    
　　I've always + (thought/believed/felt) that……    
　　I maintain that……    
　　I've always maintained that……    
　　It seems to me that……    
　　I'm convinced that……    
　　As far as I'm concerned，……    
　　My view is that……    
　　From my point of view，……    
　　To my mind，……    
　　The way I see it，……    
　　As I see it，……    
## 10. Giving Reasons for Opinions  
　　……because……    
　　……since……    
　　The main reason I say that is because ……    
　　One of the reasons I say that is because…… (One reason I say that is because…… )    
## 11. Explaining  
　　Example question： Why are many older people reluctant to learn computer skills?    
　　The reason why…… is because / is that……    
　　The main reason why…… is because / is that……    
　　One reason why…… is because / is that……    
　　One possible explanation (for that) is……    
　　To understand why……..，you first need to…….. (understand，know，be aware that)    
　　Well，it's like this： …….    
　　You could look at it this way：……    
## 12. Speculating ( = Guessing When You Don't Know)  
　　(When talking about the present or the past)    
　　Example question： Do old people in China have opportunities to attend any forms of classes?    
　　Well，I'm not sure but……    
　　Well，I've never thought about that before but……    
　　I imagine……    
　　I guess……    
　　I suppose……    
　　I'd say ..    
## 13. Speculating ( = guessing) About the Future  
　　(Most commonly，how the future will change，compared to now.)    
　　Example question： How do you think the tourist industry (in China) will develop in the future?    
　　I predict…… + a noun    
　　I (can) foresee…… + [a noun + 现在分词] or + a noun    
　　I imagine / suppose / guess ……    
　　…… will + adverb (or，adverb + will)    
　　…… be (present tense) likely to……    
　　…… be (present tense) bound to……    
　　…… be (present tense) + going to + V (原形动词) = "will" + V (原形动词)    
　　There’ll probably / possibly be……    
　　We might see / have……    
　　…… will be + 现在分词……    
　　…… might be + 现在分词……    
　　I'd be surprised if + past tense/past continuous tense    
　　I'll be very surprised if + present tense/past continuous tense    
　　I expect ..    
## 14. Expressing Plans，Intentions and Hopes for the Future  
　　Example question： What are your future work plans? (after you graduate)    
　　I plan to……    
　　My plan is to……    
　　I plan on + Ving (动名词)    
　　I intend to……    
　　I hope to……    
　　I'm going to……    
　　My ambition is to……    
　　My immediate goal is to……    
　　My ultimate (= final) goal is to……    
　　Ultimately，……    
　　Hopefully，……    
　　Ideally，……    
　　I expect to……    
　　I’d like to…… = I want to ..    
　　As an alternative，I might……    
　　If all goes well，I'll / I should……    
　　If everything goes according to plan，I'll / I should……    
　　My dream is to……    
　　It's always been my hope/plan/ambition/dream to……    
　　My heart is set on + Ving (动名词)    
## 15. Clarifying  
　　What I mean is……    
　　My meaning is……    
　　In other words，    
　　That is to say，……    
　　Let me put that another way.    
　　To put that another way，……    
　　What I'm trying to say is……    
　　My point is that……    
　　More specifically，……    
　　For example，……    
　　For instance，……    
## 16. Explaining a Word When you have Forgotten (or don't know) the Word  
　　"I can't remember the word but……..    
　　it's a thing that……    
　　it's a type of……    
　　it's something you……    
　　he's a person who……    
　　it's something like……    
　　it's similar to……    
　　it's kind of like a……"    
　　These sentences use the present tense because you are speaking in general. For example，"It's a thing，a tool that you use to put air into your bicycle tyre - you use it like this" (Show the action). (a bicycle pump)  
## 17. Speaking in General  
　　On the whole，……    
　　As a rule，……    
　　In general，    
　　Generally，……    
　　Generally speaking，……    
　　For the most part，……    
　　Typically，    
　　Usually，    

## 其他&分类短句  

1. 表达喜好  
I prefer A to B because...  
If I have a choice, I will... (a real possibility)  
If I had a choice, I would... (not a real possibility, just wishing)  
For me, A is much more attractive / interesting / preferable than B because... I would much rather do / have / eat / listen to / blah blah blah A than B...  
2. 叙述  
When I was a high school student, I went to Guizhou to visit some friends. After I graduated from high school, I ...  
During my visit to Guizhou last year, I...  
Last year during the Spring Festival, I went to Guizhou to visit some friends.  
(Also use "Whenever" or "While")  
3. 比较和对比  
A is much better / worse than B.  
A is not nearly as good as B.  
A is not quite as important as B.  
A is almost as tall as B, but not quite.  
When I compare these two items, it's clear that...  
4. 建议  
Maybe, Perhaps, Possibly  
One possibility that I can think of is...  
Another idea to think about is...  
5. 表达观点  
It seems to me that...  
This is only my opinion but...  
After a lot of thought, I have come to the conclusion that...  
I've never thought about this question much before, but it seems to me that... 6. 解释  
The reason I believe this is...  
The most important evidence supporting my belief is...  
7. 推测  
I'm not sure what might happen, but one possibility is...  
It's hard to predict the future, but I suppose it / we might...  
8. 分析  
There are several points to consider, first of which is...  
We can break this question down into several parts. First...  
Let's look at this step by step. To begin with...  
9. 总结  
Altogether, there were...  
In the end, they had to...  
When we consider all the factors...  
Considering all of these ideas, maybe the best thing would be to...  
10. 修正  
Maybe I'm not making myself clear. I want to say that... What I mean to say is...  
What I'm trying to say is...  
Another way to put it is.  

## 其他&考试套话  

1. 与考官见面语  
Glad to meet you here.  
How nice to see you.  
Fancy seeing you.  
How are you?  
I’m glad to have had the opportunity to meet you here.  
I’m glad to meet you.  
I’m pleased to meet you.  
It’s a pleasure to meet you.  
2. 完全没听懂问题  
Could you please rephrase that question/topic?  
I’m not exactly sure what you mean...  
3. 对问题似懂非懂  
Do you mean...?  
If I understand right...  
I’m sorry if I’m being a little slow, but...?  
I’m sorry, I’m not sure I understand. Do you mean (that )... ?  
So am I right in saying ... ?  
If I’ve got the picture, then ...  
So what you mean is ..., right?  
Sorry, I don’t quite catch you. You mean ...?  
Can I get one thing clear?  
Would I be correct in supposing ...?  
4. 对问题内容不熟悉  
I’m not exactly sure how to answer that question, but (perhaps)...  
That’s a rather difficult question, but (maybe) ...  
I’m sorry, but I don’t know much about ...  
5. 评价考官所提问题  
That’s difficult to answer, but maybe ...  
I’m sorry, but I don’t know much about ..., but perhaps...  
Maybe I can answer your question by telling you about a personal experience I had. That’s an interesting question ... let me see. Well, I suppose that ...  
Yes, that’s a big issue.  
6. 连接词  
Well, ...  
Actually ...  
In fact ...  
You see ...  
You know, ...  
How shall I put it...  
Let me think for a second ...  
Give me a few seconds...  
7. 接一种方式重述  
In other words, I am ...  
And that means ...  
Let me put it another way , ...  
What I’m suggesting is ...  
All I ‘m trying to say is ...  
What I’m getting at is ...  
If I can rephrase that ...  
Perhaps I should make that clearer by saying  
Perhaps it would be more accurate to say ...  
The point I’m making is that ..  
8. 回答完毕,询问考官司是否还需补充其他信息  
Have I given you enough information?  
Would you like me to tell you more about ...?  
Is that all you’d like to know?  
Is there anything else you wish to know?  
9. 回答完毕,考生认为已无话可说了.  
I’m afraid that’s about as much as I know.  
I think that’s all.  
I can’t think of anything else right now.  
10. 最后结束语表达  
That’s very kind of you. Thank you.  
Thank you very much for giving me information.  
Well, thanks for talking to me and I wish you all the best. Thank you, sir?  
Nice talking to you.  
I appreciate your talking with me. Goodbye.  
I enjoyed talking to you.  
It’s been very helpful talking to you.  
口语常用表述  
11. 回答考官居就某事征求你意见 As for as I’m concerned, I think ... In my opinion ...  
It seems to me (that )...  
From where I stand, it is... What I reckon is ...  
I’d like to point out that ...  
If I may say so, this is ...  
I’m convinced that ...  
Personally, I consider ...  
12. 表达对未来的找算和态度  
Well ... as you know, at the moment, I’m studying at ...  
I’m preparing right now to go to university, so my short-term plan is to ...  
If I’m not successful, that is, if something goes wrong, I think I will probably ... In the future I would like to complete a master’s degree.  
I do not know if I will ... but I might be able to ... I feel inclined to ...  
I’ll do all I can to ...  
I reckon I’ll ...  
I’m figuring on ...  
I have every intention of ...  
13. 表示喜欢某人或某事  
I have a fancy for ...  
I don’t think I’ve seen anything I like better.  
I’m very keen on outdoor sports.  
I’ve always liked fishing.  
... is a marvelous way of spending a day off .  
There’s nothing I enjoy more than...  
I’m crazy about ...  
I can’t find words to express how much I like it.  
I have a particular fondness for pop song.  
Walking is one of my favorite pastimes.  
14. 描述事物  
It’s made of silk.  
It had many features.  
It’s red colored with a steep roof.  
It’s a 3-room apartment, and it’s about 80 square meters.  
15. 回忆过去  
I can still remember the time when I passed my entrance examinations.  
I’ll never forget the time when I first went to primary school.  
Once, when I was a college student, I went on a trip which I will never forget. 16. 表达感情  
I felt so happy that I could jump for joy.  
I felt like I was in heaven.  
It impressed me deeply.  
I felt so depressed.  
17. 描述流程  
The first thing you should do /need to do is to plug it in.  
First, you need to take off the lid.  
The first step is to get the ingredients prepared.  
Next, you should select the function you want to use.  
After that, you should press the button.  
Finally, switch it off by pressing the red button.  
The last thing you need to do is to turn off the stove.  
18. 解释原因  
In my opinion there are three way of looking at it: first of all ... next ... then...  
Well, I think there are two (or three or more) reasons. First, I think it is part of our culture. Second, I think it’s good for our economy. Finally, it gives us time to recharge and be rested for the next working year.  
The best reason I think the examination system should change is because it prevents too many people from pursuing their dreams.  
I can come up with about three reasons for the change in people’s diets.  
19. 谈论变化  
More and more people in China are learning English.  
The environmental problem is getting more serious.  
There has been a rapid increase of farmers moving to the cities.  
China’s population has remained about the same over the last few years.  
20. 评价作用  
Yes, computers play a big role in our lives.  
Yes, I think it’s an important issue for us in China these days.  
Friendship is something we all take seriously.  
In China we consider the family to be key to our society.  
21. 总结规律  
In most cases, divorce is something that both parties realize is necessary.  
Generally (speaking), Chinese people love sports.  
By and large, Chinese people are very respectful of the elderly.  
On the whole, Chinese students receive a good education in the basics.  
22. 表达观点  
Well, I know many people like it but I think it’s wrong.  
Yes, these day it is quite popular to go on these chat lines, but I think it’s not very good. A lot of people think the environment is getting better but frankly I think it’s getting worse. 23. 驳斥观点  
I’m afraid it’s wrong.  
I don’t think so.  
I’m afraid what you think about ... is not quite right.  
Sorry, that’s not at all right.  
No, you’ve got it all wrong.  
I think the information you have must be incorrect.  
If I may say so, it’s not the case.  
If I may say so, you are mistaken there.  
I’m sorry, there are some misunderstandings here.  
It doesn’t seem correct to say ...  
I can’t accept that.  
I couldn’t agree with you less.  
I don’t think you’re right there.  
I’m not at all sure, actually ...  
That’s not the way I see it.  
I can’t go along with your view.  
On the contrary ...  
I can’t say that I share your view of ...  
I’m afraid I can’t accept your argument.  
I’m not at all convinced by your explanation.  
24. 举例说明  
Let me give you an example.  
Take ... for instance ...  
An example of this would be ...  
And as evidence of that...  
Let me cite a few instances...  
To exemplify this theory...  
To give you an example of this, take ... for instance.  
To illustrate my point...  
To make it clearer to you ...  
..., such as ...  
25. 假设推理  
If you allow your traditional customs to disappear, this will have a very bad effect on your culture. If everyone were to eat fast food, we would have a lot of health problems to deal with.  
If animals were to disappear, we would indeed be showing our irresponsibility to the animal kingdom.  
26. 表达区别  
The biggest difference between construction about 20 years ago and today is that 20 years ago much construction was done manually.  
One large way that big cities differ from small cities is the air.  
Yes, there are quite a few differences between the way children and adults make friends. A good example is the way they just start using each other’s toys happily without needing permission.  
27. 表达对比  
Big cities have more opportunities than small cities.  
University life is more interesting than middle school life.  
Families in the past were more dependent on each other, but now they are more independent.  
There were fewer cars on the roads 20 years ago, compared to now.  
28. 列举优劣  
There are two sides to this issue. On one hand, we need tourism to develop our economy. On the other hand, we shouldn’t let it destroy our natural beauty.  
The main advantage of getting your news on the internet is that it is fast and you can choose what news you want to learn. The disadvantage is it may not be as reliable.  
The strengths of a traditional family are in its close family support, but the weakness is that often the husband and wife feel trapped in the relationship.  
The positive side of technology is its contribution to our convenience, but the dark side of it is that it may make us lazier.  
29. 提出解决方法  
I think what should be done is to give students more opportunities to demonstrate their creativity.  
I think this problem could be solved by creating more job opportunities.  
To solve this problem, I think we should try and set up more facilities for elderly people to meet each other and socialize.  

## 其他&常用短句  

  All I want is... 我想要的是......。  
  All we can do is... 我们所能做的就是...... 。  
  Do you by any chance know...? 你也许知道......吧?  
  How do you like...? 你认为......怎么样?  
  I didn't realize... 我没意识到......。  
  I find it hard to... 我发现......很难。  
  I hate to say it, but... 我实在不想这么说，但是......。  
  I really appreciate... 我真的很感激......。  
  I was impressed by... 我被......打动。/ ......给我留下深刻印象。 I'll try my best to... 我会尽全力......。  
  I'm fed up with... 我厌倦了......。/我受够了......。  
  I'm here to... 我是来这里.......。  
  I'm thinking of... 我打算......。  
  It is impossible to... ......不可能。  
  It might be a good idea to... ......或许是个好主意。  
  ...is really something. ......真是了不起。  
  It was kind of... 有一点......。  
  Just tell me if... 如果......，尽管告诉我。  
  ...means a lot to me. ......对我来说很重要。  
  Why don't you...? 为何不......?  

## 其他&实用例句  

1. I am a student studying in Wuhan University, and I major in Computer Science.  
我是武汉大学的学生，我的专业是计算机科学  
2. I chose my major because I thought it was popular, so it will be easier for me to find a job after graduation. 我之所以选择这个专业，是因为我觉得它很热门，毕业以后我会比较容易找到一份好工作。  
3. I came from Hubei province.  
我来自湖北省。  
4. I love my hometown because there are a lot of places of interest and delicious food here.  
我喜欢我的家乡，因为这里有许多的名胜古迹，还有各种各样的美食。  
5. The most famous attraction is Yellow Crane Tower. It was built hundreds of years ago besides the Yangtze River.  
最出名的旅游景点是黄鹤楼，几百年前它被建于长江边。  
6. Every year millions of tourists visit the tower coming from different parts of China.
每年都有几百万来自于全国各地的游客参观黄鹤楼。  
7. And the most welcomed snack is the hot dry noodle, even though some outlanders do not appreciate it at the beginning, they will love it finally. 最受欢迎的小吃是热干面，虽然有一些外地来的人刚开始并不喜欢吃，但是一段时间以后他 们一定会爱上热干面。  
8. My favourite season is definitely winter, because I was born in winter.  
我最喜欢的季节是冬季，因为我是在冬季出生的。  
9. What's more, I can enjoy the beautiful view after snow while all the buildings and trees are covered by white snow. 另外，在冬天，我可以欣赏雪后的美景，所有的房屋和树木都被皑皑白雪覆盖。  
10. The most important things is that I could enjoy the whole winter vacation and celebrate the Spring Festival with family. 最重要的是我可以好好享受整个寒假并且和家人一起庆祝春节。  
11. Blue is my favourite, as it has the same colour with sky and ocean. Both of those are enormous. 蓝色是我最钟爱的颜色，因为它和天空以及大海的颜色是一样的，而天空和大海都是同样的 广阔。  
12. When people are in bad mood, they can go to the wild field, lay down on the grass and look into the sky or drive a car to the beach to see the sea. 当人们的情绪不太好时，可以去野外躺在草地上仰望天空，或者驱车去海边看海。  
13. I believe they will feel much better when they are surrounded by the attractive natural beauty.我相信当人们被自然美景所环绕时，一定会忘记烦恼的。  
14. I watched a fantastic movie named "Brave Heart" when I was in the second year in college.  
在大学二年级的时候，我看了一部电影《勇敢的心》。  
15. It presented a Scottish hero, "Wiliam Wallace" who led his people to fight for freedom.  
它向人们讲述了一个苏格兰英雄威廉姆，他带领人们为自由而战。  
16. Unfortunately, he was set up by his partner and executed at the end.不 幸的是他被他的同伴出卖并最终被处死。  
17. However, his last screaming invoked Scottish people and encouraged them to pick up his sword to defend their homeland and protect their citizens from the invasion of England.  
不过，他临终前的呐喊唤醒了苏格兰人们并且激励他们捡起他的剑保家卫国，保护人民免受 英格兰入侵之苦。  
18. In China, the most popular flower must be rose, as people believe that the rose stands for love.  
在中国，最流行的鲜花莫过于玫瑰，因为人们相信玫瑰代表爱情。  
19. The youth always give roses to their lovers to show how much they love each other.  
年轻人经常送玫瑰花给自己的心上人来向他们表达爱意。  
20. As for me, Lily is the most meaningful flower, not only because it is beautiful and smells good, but also because it has a similar pronunciation with "Love each other forever" in Chinese. 对我来说，我最喜欢的花是百合。不仅仅因为它的美丽和芳香，还因为百合的汉语发音和百 年好合很像。  

**声明：资源源自网络，侵删**  
